Our next demonstration will show the following.
We plan to introduce a new feature, and consequently,
the end user will define the acceptance test for it.
Based on the acceptance test, the programmer will build the functionality.
Finally, we'll measure the code coverage as one quality metric for our work.
We'll effectively introduce now a new feature.
We are going to work TDD BDD style, meaning that we'll do the following.
First, write the acceptance test.
Then write a Java test.
Then write the code that will fix the test,
and consequently, provide the feature implementation.
We'll introduce two types of passengers,
user ones and VIPs, depending on their type will define the company policy.
So we are now into the Passenger class.
We add this VIP field, and we generate the getter and the setter.
This is what they look like.
We'll create a new feature file and we'll call it passengers_policy.feature.
So the company is following a policy of adding and removing
passengers depending on the passenger type.
The first scenario outline is about the flight with usual passengers.
Given there is a flight having number flightNumber and places
places with passengers defined into file,
when we have usual passengers,
then you can remove them from the flight and add them to another flight.
Of course, we'll need this examples table having those columns,
the flightNumber, the number of places,
and the file with the passenger description,
and there is a scenario outline for the flight with VIP passengers.
Given there is a flight having number, flightNumber,
and places, places with passengers defined into a given file,
when we have VIP passengers, then you can't remove them from the flight,
and we do have the same examples table.
Here, we'll have to create the Java class defining the PassengersPolicy.
We are going to run the feature file in order to get all steps created.
Cucumber has created those steps for us.
We have taken the steps created by Cucumber and are
inserting them into PassengersPolicy.
So for this test, we'll need our flight,
we are going to need a list of usual passengers,
a list of VIP passengers, and anotherFlight where to move the usualPassengers.
But how do we keep the VIP information into the csv file?
We have added a new field, Y from yes, at the end of the corresponding row.
The same for the second flight and the same for the third flight.
We do not have many VIP passengers, most of them are usual ones,
but we have to treat this particular case.
Into the buildFlightFromCsv method from the FlightBuilderUtil file,
we'll need to parse this last field if it exists.
So if the passengerString array has length 4,
meaning there is also the Y parameter,
we would have to take that passenger and set the VIP property to true.
Otherwise, the logic of the method remains the same.
We go back to the PassengersPolicy class and we insert
the testing logic for each method.
As previous done for our convenience and for clarity,
we'll replace the names of the parameters.
So given there is a flight having number flightNumber and places,
places with passengers defined into some given file name.
When we have usual passengers and here we are browsing the
flight PassengersSet and we are adding only the usual ones
to the corresponding list,
then you can remove them from the flight and we are checking here that the
flight.removePassenger method returns the true value and we can add them to
another flight and are browsing the list of usual passengers and we are checking
that we are able to add them to another flight.
Let's run the Cucumber test now and it succeeds for the usual passengers.
This means that our present business logic already covers the newly
defined PassengersPolicy for usualPassengers.
Let's generate the missing steps for the VIP passengers.
Cucumber has generated for us the two missing steps and we
add them here to the PassengersPolicy.
We read them and they're implementing the testing logic.
When we have VIP passengers and we are adding here to the VIP
passenger list only the VIP passengers,
then you cannot remove them from the flight and we are
browsing the VIP passengers list and we are checking that we
cannot remove them from the flight.
Let's run Cucumber test.
And this one is failing and exactly for this reason.
We check that we cannot remove VIP passengers from
the flight and this is not true.
This means that our existing business logic is not yet covering this case.
As we were saying, we are working TDD BDD style.
We have written the acceptance tests, we have written the tests in Java,
and then we have checked their functionality.
Now that we have found out that one test is failing,
we are going to write the smallest piece of code that will fix the test
and this is to be found here into removePassenger.
We need to check one more condition.
If the passenger is VIP, removePassenger will return false.
Let's run Cucumber test again.
Great.
It succeeds.
So we have successfully introduced the new PassengersPolicy by working
TDD BDD style with the help of acceptance tests.
There is still one thing to do,
check the code coverage to understand where we are.
Great.
Our code coverage remains at 100%.
This module has focused on introducing acceptance testing
and demonstrating it for our project.
Acceptance testing is the last level of the pyramid before a
product can be considered as ready for the delivery to the end
user so it brings us right to the target.
In order to do this, the focus has been on adding business value,
and besides doing the things right, doing the right thing.
We had an overview of the communication within a project
demonstrating how things happen in real life and how
important a common understanding is.
We have introduced and demonstrated the functionality of Cucumber,
an acceptance testing framework,
and shown how to build the scenarios that check the real business needs.
We have checked existing functionality from the acceptance point of view,
we have refined the way acceptance tests are written understanding the
Cucumber capabilities at the more detailed level,
and introducing new functionality by starting from the acceptance
test and then moving to the implementation.
We may conclude that our demonstration is really following the way a real project is developed.